[Issuance] Credential Offer (#549)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/pid-eaa-issuance.rst

  * **Authorization Code Flow**: The PID/(Q)EAA Provider requires User authentication and consent at the Authorization Endpoint before collecting User information to create and provide a Credential.
  * **Wallet Initiated Flow**: The request from the Wallet Instance is sent to the PID/(Q)EAA Provider without any input from the latter.

>   * **Issuer Initiated Flow**: The request from the Wallet Instance is sent to the PID/(Q)EAA Provider following the input from the latter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Issuer Initiated Flow**: The Wallet Instance sends its request to the PID/(Q)EAA Provider, according to the input provided by the PID/(Q)EAA Provider.
```

  * **Same-device Issuance flow**: The User receives the Credential on the same device that initiated the flow. 

>   * **Cross-device Issuance flow**: The User receives the Credential on another device tha the one that initiated the flow. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * **Cross-device Issuance flow**: The User receives the Credential on another device than the one that initiated the flow. 
```

  * **Immediate Issuance flow**: The PID/(Q)EAA Provider issues the Credential directly in response to the Credential Request.
  * **Deferred Issuance flow**: The PID/(Q)EAA Provider may require time to issue the requested Digital Credential, due to the Authentic Sources data provisioning rules, and allows the Wallet to retrieve the requested Credential in the future.

The entire Issuance flow can be divided into two sub-flows:

  - **User Request flow**, describing the modes through which the User can request the Credential. It can be:

      **1)** On the initiative of the User (**Wallet Initiated**)

      **2)** Upon proposal of the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer (**Issuer Initiated**)

>   - **Issuance flow**, describing interactions between Wallet Instance and PID/(Q)EAA Provider that lead to the minting of the Credential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Issuance flow**, describing interactions between Wallet Instance and PID/(Q)EAA Provider.
```

The following diagram shows the *User request flow*.

.. _fig_Low-Level-Flow-ITWallet-PID-QEAA-User-Request:

.. figure:: ../../images/Low-Level-Flow-ITWallet-PID-QEAA-User-Request.svg
    :figwidth: 100%
    :align: center
    :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/svg/hL9DJzj04BtFhnY5Gzi3eFIO0-8ZL8rKAL2ekFIojiVnYFMkjJiRmx_lhEsMX4QjaBYihDrv7-zvpgEO8AcrO99ubzg20ivFvW2TtdF9dN62in-HmWnDn0HG-AVnuaF4sEfKrtX7Cppwnfj6BcsYVUnbyFrlU17stnwCjIIuSch3bJJCz42kGbNPbw8deU2CnOgsN6QzTJ1kyqynUg7QcxfPBKy_tdwwlhZ0c-2tN4q81Z1Ma6lyOuo5ZL25Nwpl0H8Uds6_m7L73gKXV1K0JTVzTDQNnc9I7sYIJZbLDiBUWIc5jygd8VjCbHRe2p7iyDcdW4lUi2ZqAb2LKSPcnL7ocI90S5x1VglCFHuzV5tTNyCw4unkB4T1Nm_Vzo75RFn0rfXh6QW0-kCpDL5wLtDe1s0aIsLsgqo7q019BQaZ_mXGqKua81ifjxUACL5utTxkYdq-cKzjyjJcf7IwAuKz5P65WDzI5azbZRzIttsCk1osPZAIwV9wBB2Hrc9dDeGzIuEttwzyHRcEhCDkiyEEwxgc00gRpDmrlXyQcr2P9bjutnNfLQWqJaKmgm2yr7ndMZeOxAzSJQ3wFwccKANbyZ7x7Z554b5JyAwvylgDnxaUgRM_0000

**Steps 1.1-1.4 (Wallet Initiated Flow):** The User, using the Wallet Instance, selects the PID/(Q)EAA Provider from those listed in the list of trustworthy entities.

> **Steps 2.1-2.3 (Issuer Initiated Flow):** The User while browsing the PID/(Q)EAA Provider website finds a link to obtain a Digital Credential.

Reviewer 3: We should consider also the "Authentic source Initiated Flow".

**Steps 2.4-2.7 (Cross-Device):** The Credential Offer is presented as a QR Code displayed to the User. The User scans the QR Code using the Wallet Instance which retrieves the parameters defined in the :ref:`Table of Credential Offer parameters <table_credential_offer_claim>`.

> **Steps 2.8-2.10 (Same-Device):** The Credential Offer is presented as an href button containing the URL that allows the user to invoke the wallet instance using Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 2.8-2.10 (Same-Device):** The Credential Offer is presented as an href button containing the URL that allows the User to invoke the Wallet Instance using the Credential Offer Endpoint.
```

Below a non-normative example of a URL related to a Credential Offer that can be included in a QR Code or in html page with an href button:

.. code-block:: http

  openid-credential-offer://?credential_offer%3D%7B%22credential_issuer%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Feaa-provider.example.org%22%2C%22credential_configuration_ids%22%3A%5B%22EuropeanDisabilityCard%22%5D%2C%22grants%22%3A%7B%22authorization_code%22%3A%7B%22issuer_state%22%3A%22oaKazRN8I0IbtZ0C7JuMn5%22%7D%7D%7D

> .. note::
> 
>   For the Credential Offer Endpoint the use of custom URL scheme ``openid-credential-offer://`` is mandatory.

Author: ```suggestion
```

    PID/(Q)EAA Issuance - Detailed flow

> Once *User Request flow* is completed, the Wallet Instance processes the Metadata of the PID/(Q)EAA Provider as defined in the `Trust Model section <https://italia.github.io/eudi-wallet-it-docs/versione-corrente/en/trust.html#trust-evaluation-mechanism>`_ of this specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once *User Request flow* is completed, the Wallet Instance processes the Metadata of the PID/(Q)EAA Provider as defined in Section :ref:`Trust Evaluation Mechanism <Trust Evaluation Mechanism>` .
```

   The PID/(Q)EAA Provider MUST validate the signature of the the Wallet Attestation and that it is not expired.

> **Step 3 (PAR Response)**:  The PID/(Q)EAA Provider provides a one-time use ``request_uri`` value. The issued ``request_uri`` value must be bound to the client identifier (``client_id``) that was provided in the Request Object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 3 (PAR Response)**:  The PID/(Q)EAA Provider provides a one-time use ``request_uri`` value. The issued ``request_uri`` value MUST be bound to the client identifier (``client_id``) that was provided in the Request Object.
```

  :language: JSON

> **Steps 4-5 (Authorization Request)**: The Wallet Instance sends an authorization request to the PID/(Q)EAA Provider Authorization Endpoint. Since parts of this Authorization Request content, e.g., the ``code_challenge`` parameter value, are unique to a particular Authorization Request, the Wallet Instance MUST only use a ``request_uri`` value once (:rfc:`9126`); The  PID/(Q)EAA Provider performs the following checks upon the receipt of the Authorization Request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 4-5 (Authorization Request)**: The Wallet Instance sends an authorization request to the PID/(Q)EAA Provider Authorization Endpoint. Since parts of this Authorization Request content, e.g., the ``code_challenge`` parameter value, are unique to a particular Authorization Request, the Wallet Instance MUST use a ``request_uri`` value once (:rfc:`9126`); The  PID/(Q)EAA Provider performs the following checks upon the receipt of the Authorization Request:
```

In the case where the Authentic Source and the PID/(Q)EAA Provider are both enabled to use *PDND*, what is described in Section :ref:`Authentic Sources` MUST apply.

Credential Offer Endpoint
-------------------------------------

> The Credential Offer endpoint of a Wallet is used by PID/(Q)EAA Issuer to interact with the User to initiate a Credential Issuance. The use of the following custom URL scheme is mandatory: ``openid-credential-offer://``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Credential Offer endpoint of a Wallet is used by PID/(Q)EAA Issuer to interact with the User to initiate a Credential Issuance. The custom URL scheme ``openid-credential-offer://`` MUST be used.
```

Credential Offer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The Credential Offer made by PID/(Q)EAA Issuer consists of a single URI query parameter ``credential_offer`` that can be included in a QR Code or in an html page with an href button. It MUST contain the following mandatory parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Credential Offer made by PID/(Q)EAA Issuer consists of a single URI query parameter ``credential_offer``. The Credential Offer URL MAY be included in a QR Code or in an html page with an href button and MUST contain the following mandatory parameters:
```

.. _table_credential_offer_claim:
.. list-table::
  :widths: 20 60 20
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Claim**
    - **Description**
    - **Reference**
  * - **credential_issuer**

>     - It MUST be an HTTPS URL that uniquely identifies the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer. The Wallet uses it to obtains the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer's metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - It MUST be set with the HTTPS URL that uniquely identifies the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer. The Wallet uses this parameter value to obtain the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer's metadata.
```
